Review convolution session (#187)
nfidd/nfidd: sessions/using-delay-distributions-to-model-the-data-generating-process-of-an-epidemic.qmd

In our first session, we decided to assume the delay from infection to symptom onset had a gamma distribution.
However, if we want to use the gamma distribution with shape 5 and rate 1 as before, we face a familiar issue.
The gamma distribution is a *continuous* distribution, but now our delay data are in days which are *discrete* entities. In addition to this, we are assuming that both events that make up the delay (here infections and onsets) are observed as daily counts.

> This means that our distribution is **double interval censored** which we encountered in the [the biases in delay distribution session](sessions/biases-in-delay-distributions.qmd) and so we can need to use the same ideas introduced in that session. The important point to remember is that the cumulative distribution functon ($F(t)$) of a distribution that has a daily censored primary event can be expressed as,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This means that our distribution is **double interval censored** which we encountered in the [the biases in delay distribution session](sessions/biases-in-delay-distributions.qmd), so we need to use the same ideas introduced in that session. The important point to remember is that the cumulative distribution function ($F(t)$) of a distribution that has a daily censored primary event can be expressed as,
```

$$
F^*(t) = \int_0^1 F(t - u) du
$$

The probability mass function (PMF) is then

$$

> f_t \propto \frac{F^*(t + 1) - F^*(t - 1)}{}

Author: No I don't think so. This assumes a uniform secondary event window. The primary event is now wrapped up in the modified CDF ($F^*(t)$

I was sort of assuming we had covered this in the previous session but I will take a look and circle back

> f_t \propto \frac{F^*(t + 1) - F^*(t - 1)}{}

Reviewer 2: That session doesn't introduce the mathematical background, just the concept and simulation.

> f_t \propto \frac{F^*(t + 1) - F^*(t - 1)}{}

Author: See above comment. What we had here wasn't really right and I think just confusing. I would vote we leave this and I will look at that session tomorrow morning to see if anything can tie it in better.

> f_t \propto \frac{F^*(t + 1) - F^*(t - 1)}{}

Reviewer 2: I think we should remove from the slides but happy to keep in here as an optional maths bit. I'll amend before merge and then you can have a look tomorrow.

$$

> which you may be familiar with from single censored (i.e. for the secondary event) discretised distributions.

Author: this is assuming we communicated this in the biases in delays session. If we aren't I think we should

> which you may be familiar with from single censored (i.e. for the secondary event) discretised distributions.

Reviewer 2: we only discuss double censored there, and no maths

> which you may be familiar with from single censored (i.e. for the secondary event) discretised distributions.

Author: So I think the options are to take out the maths here or leave?

As it was we had some maths but it wasn't really correct so that doesn't seem like a good option?

> which you may be familiar with from single censored (i.e. for the secondary event) discretised distributions.

Reviewer 2: I agree - this might be from before we decided to use simulation. I'll update.

> which you may be familiar with from single censored (i.e. for the secondary event) discretised distributions.

Author: as an aside this is what we need to add to `EpiNow2` + elsewhere. you solve the first integral numerically and the do the second thing as normal. stan support for auto-diffing through numerical integrals should be good so this should work pretty well

We can also think about this via simulation.
We do so by generating many replicates of the corresponding random delay, taking into account that we have already rounded down our infection times to infection days.

> This means that discretising a delay in this context is **double censoring** as we discussed i

Author: I've added another linking sentence here. 

> not talking about two censored events before

We should be in the biases session?
